README.md, before:

# New Tab V2

A fast, local browser new-tab replacement page with a categorised link list, fuzzy search, Umami analytics trends, and a weather widget.

## Features

- **Links list** — sourced from a local Obsidian markdown file, grouped by category, with optional circular logos
- **Tab layout** — Links tab (search, sort, links) and Extra tab (Premier League table + Liverpool fixtures); active tab persists in sessionStorage
- **Sort toggle** — switch between Frequency (flat grid sorted by click count + A–Z tiebreaker) and Grouping (category headers with Recent group at top); sort bar is hidden by default — click the gear icon (⚙) in the search bar to reveal it; buttons span the full grid width, smaller font on mobile
- **Recently visited** — Google searches made from the search bar appear as a "Recent" group in Grouping mode (stored in localStorage); links from the main list stay in their original category
- **Click tracking** — every link click increments a count, shown with a pointer cursor SVG + count on every card; click timestamps stored in localStorage (`ntv2-click-counts`) to support time-range resets; ↺ Reset stats button opens a modal with options: past hour / 24 h / week / all stats; modal shows a confirmation message after resetting (title + time frame covered), then auto-closes after 1.5 s
- **Umami stats** — per-link icon + count + diff-in-brackets + ▲/▼ indicator; metric (Visitors / Pageviews / Visits) and time period (24 h / 7 d / 30 d) toggle buttons in the sort bar; metric switch is instant from cache, period switch re-fetches from API
- **Fuzzy search** — Fuse.js powered, searches link name and category (typo-tolerant); auto-focused on page load; Enter opens a Google search in a new tab
- **Weather widget** — expanded by default on desktop (>600 px), collapsed on mobile; click to toggle; shows 24-hour strip + 7-day forecast via Open-Meteo (no API key required)
- **Glassmorphism UI** — backdrop blur cards, responsive 3-column grid on desktop / 1 column on mobile
- **Scroll-to-top FAB** — appears after scrolling 10% of page height
- **Footer** — dynamic current year, GitHub link, mailto envelope icon

## File Structure

```
New-Tab-V2/
├── assets/
│   └── bg.jpg                  # Background image
├── config/
│   └── config.yaml             # Source file path + heading name config
├── data/                       # GENERATED — do not edit by hand
│   ├── links.json
│   └── umami-config.json
├── prompts/                    # Project planning docs
├── scripts/
│   └── refresh-links.js        # Parses Obsidian .md → data/ JSON files
├── .env                        # Umami + football API keys (gitignored)
├── .env.example                # Template for .env
├── .gitignore
├── .vscode/
│   └── settings.json           # Sets Live Server host to localhost (CORS fix)
├── app.js                      # Client-side ES module — all runtime logic
├── index.html                  # Page structure
├── package.json
└── style.css                   # Glassmorphism styles
```

## Setup

### 1. Install dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

### 2. Configure

Edit `config/config.yaml`:

```yaml
# Absolute path to your Obsidian markdown file
links-list-source-file-path: 'C:\path\to\your\file.md'

# Exact text of the heading above the links table in that file
links-list-heading: 'Links List'
```

### 3. Set up Umami (optional)

Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and add your [Umami Cloud API key](https://umami.is/docs/cloud/api-key):

```
UMAMI_API_KEY=api_xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
```

### 4. Generate data files

```bash
npm run refresh
```

This reads the Obsidian file and writes `data/links.json` and `data/umami-config.json`. Re-run whenever you update the links table.

### 5. Open in browser

Open `index.html` directly, or serve locally for geolocation support:

```bash
npx serve .
```

Then visit `http://localhost:3000`.

> **Note:** Browsers block geolocation on `file://` URLs. Use a local server to enable the weather widget.

> **VS Code Live Server:** The included `.vscode/settings.json` configures Live Server to serve on `http://localhost` instead of `http://127.0.0.1`. This is required because the football-data.org free tier only allows CORS requests from `http://localhost`.

## Obsidian Table Format

The script expects a markdown table under the configured heading with these exact columns:

| Order | Link Name | Link | Grouping | Logo URL | Project Link | Umami Tracking Link |
|-------|-----------|------|----------|----------|--------------|---------------------|

- **Order** — numeric sort order
- **Link Name** — display name shown on the card
- **Link** — destination URL (bare, `<url>`, or `[text](url)` format)
- **Grouping** — category header to group cards under
- **Logo URL** — circular icon image URL (optional)
- **Project Link** — secondary link shown as "Project" below the name (optional)
- **Umami Tracking Link** — full Umami dashboard URL, e.g. `https://cloud.umami.is/analytics/eu/websites/{uuid}` (optional)

## Configuration Reference

| Key | Description | Default |
|-----|-------------|---------|
| `links-list-source-file-path` | Absolute path to the Obsidian `.md` file | _(required)_ |
| `links-list-heading` | Heading text above the links table | `Links List` |

## Football Data

The Extra tab shows a live Premier League table (P / W / D / L / GD / Pts) and Liverpool's next 5 fixtures, both in glass-card containers. Liverpool is highlighted in red. On mobile, fixture time wraps below the date and (H)/(A) wraps below the competition name. This requires a free API key from [football-data.org](https://www.football-data.org/):

1. Register at football-data.org (free tier: 10 req/min)
2. Add `FOOTBALL_DATA_API_KEY=your_key` to `.env`
3. Run `npm run refresh`

Data is cached in `sessionStorage` and refreshed once per browser session.

> **CORS note:** The football-data.org free tier only allows CORS requests from `http://localhost` on port 80. Any local dev server running on a different port (e.g. 3000, 5500) will be blocked. This is a local-only limitation — the page works correctly when deployed to Netlify or any hosted environment. To test locally on port 80, run `npx serve -l 80 .` (requires admin/elevated permissions).

## Tech Stack

| Concern | Solution |
|---------|----------|
| Fuzzy search | [Fuse.js](https://fusejs.io/) v7 (CDN) |
| Icons | [Lucide](https://lucide.dev/) (CDN) |
| Weather | [Open-Meteo](https://open-meteo.com/) (free, no key) |
| Reverse geocoding | [Nominatim / OpenStreetMap](https://nominatim.org/) (free, no key) |
| Analytics trends | [Umami Cloud API](https://umami.is/docs/cloud/api-key) (API key required) |
| Markdown parsing | Node.js script (`scripts/refresh-links.js`) |

Commit message:

Set up for Netlify deploy

README.md, after:

# New Tab V2

A fast, local browser new-tab replacement page with a categorised link list, fuzzy search, Umami analytics trends, and a weather widget.

## Features

- **Links list** — sourced from a local Obsidian markdown file, grouped by category, with optional circular logos
- **Tab layout** — Links tab (search, sort, links) and Extra tab (Premier League table + Liverpool fixtures); active tab persists in sessionStorage
- **Sort toggle** — switch between Frequency (flat grid sorted by click count + A–Z tiebreaker) and Grouping (category headers with Recent group at top); sort bar is hidden by default — click the gear icon (⚙) in the search bar to reveal it; buttons span the full grid width, smaller font on mobile
- **Recently visited** — Google searches made from the search bar appear as a "Recent" group in Grouping mode (stored in localStorage); links from the main list stay in their original category
- **Click tracking** — every link click increments a count, shown with a pointer cursor SVG + count on every card; click timestamps stored in localStorage (`ntv2-click-counts`) to support time-range resets; ↺ Reset stats button opens a modal with options: past hour / 24 h / week / all stats; modal shows a confirmation message after resetting (title + time frame covered), then auto-closes after 1.5 s
- **Umami stats** — per-link icon + count + diff-in-brackets + ▲/▼ indicator; metric (Visitors / Pageviews / Visits) and time period (24 h / 7 d / 30 d) toggle buttons in the sort bar; metric switch is instant from cache, period switch re-fetches from API
- **Fuzzy search** — Fuse.js powered, searches link name and category (typo-tolerant); auto-focused on page load; Enter opens a Google search in a new tab
- **Weather widget** — expanded by default on desktop (>600 px), collapsed on mobile; click to toggle; shows 24-hour strip + 7-day forecast via Open-Meteo (no API key required)
- **Glassmorphism UI** — backdrop blur cards, responsive 3-column grid on desktop / 1 column on mobile
- **Scroll-to-top FAB** — appears after scrolling 10% of page height
- **Footer** — dynamic current year, GitHub link, mailto envelope icon

## File Structure

```
New-Tab-V2/
├── assets/
│   └── bg.jpg                  # Background image
├── config/
│   └── config.yaml             # Source file path + heading name config
├── data/
│   ├── links.json              # GENERATED locally — committed (no secrets)
│   ├── umami-config.json       # GENERATED — gitignored (contains API key)
│   └── football-config.json    # GENERATED — gitignored (contains API key)
├── prompts/                    # Project planning docs
├── scripts/
│   ├── refresh-links.js        # Parses Obsidian .md → data/ JSON files (local)
│   └── netlify-build.js        # Netlify build step — generates config JSONs from env vars
├── .env                        # Umami + football API keys (gitignored)
├── .env.example                # Template for .env
├── .gitignore
├── .vscode/
│   └── settings.json           # Sets Live Server host to localhost (CORS fix)
├── app.js                      # Client-side ES module — all runtime logic
├── index.html                  # Page structure
├── netlify.toml                # Netlify build config + security headers
├── package.json
└── style.css                   # Glassmorphism styles
```

## Setup

### 1. Install dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

### 2. Configure

Edit `config/config.yaml`:

```yaml
# Absolute path to your Obsidian markdown file
links-list-source-file-path: 'C:\path\to\your\file.md'

# Exact text of the heading above the links table in that file
links-list-heading: 'Links List'
```

### 3. Set up Umami (optional)

Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and add your [Umami Cloud API key](https://umami.is/docs/cloud/api-key):

```
UMAMI_API_KEY=api_xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
```

### 4. Generate data files

```bash
npm run refresh
```

This reads the Obsidian file and writes `data/links.json` and `data/umami-config.json`. Re-run whenever you update the links table.

### 5. Open in browser

Open `index.html` directly, or serve locally for geolocation support:

```bash
npx serve .
```

Then visit `http://localhost:3000`.

> **Note:** Browsers block geolocation on `file://` URLs. Use a local server to enable the weather widget.

> **VS Code Live Server:** The included `.vscode/settings.json` configures Live Server to serve on `http://localhost` instead of `http://127.0.0.1`. This is required because the football-data.org free tier only allows CORS requests from `http://localhost`.

## Obsidian Table Format

The script expects a markdown table under the configured heading with these exact columns:

| Order | Link Name | Link | Grouping | Logo URL | Project Link | Umami Tracking Link |
|-------|-----------|------|----------|----------|--------------|---------------------|

- **Order** — numeric sort order
- **Link Name** — display name shown on the card
- **Link** — destination URL (bare, `<url>`, or `[text](url)` format)
- **Grouping** — category header to group cards under
- **Logo URL** — circular icon image URL (optional)
- **Project Link** — secondary link shown as "Project" below the name (optional)
- **Umami Tracking Link** — full Umami dashboard URL, e.g. `https://cloud.umami.is/analytics/eu/websites/{uuid}` (optional)

## Configuration Reference

| Key | Description | Default |
|-----|-------------|---------|
| `links-list-source-file-path` | Absolute path to the Obsidian `.md` file | _(required)_ |
| `links-list-heading` | Heading text above the links table | `Links List` |

## Football Data

The Extra tab shows a live Premier League table (P / W / D / L / GD / Pts) and Liverpool's next 5 fixtures, both in glass-card containers. Liverpool is highlighted in red. On mobile, fixture time wraps below the date and (H)/(A) wraps below the competition name. This requires a free API key from [football-data.org](https://www.football-data.org/):

1. Register at football-data.org (free tier: 10 req/min)
2. Add `FOOTBALL_DATA_API_KEY=your_key` to `.env`
3. Run `npm run refresh`

Data is cached in `sessionStorage` and refreshed once per browser session.

> **CORS note:** The football-data.org free tier only allows CORS requests from `http://localhost` on port 80. Any local dev server running on a different port (e.g. 3000, 5500) will be blocked. This is a local-only limitation — the page works correctly when deployed to Netlify or any hosted environment. To test locally on port 80, run `npx serve -l 80 .` (requires admin/elevated permissions).

## Deploying to Netlify

The site is fully static — Netlify serves it directly. The build step generates the two API config files from environment variables; `data/links.json` is pre-committed (no secrets).

### Steps

1. Push the repo to GitHub — verify `.gitignore` excludes `data/umami-config.json` and `data/football-config.json`
2. Import the repo in Netlify — it will auto-detect `netlify.toml`
3. In **Site configuration → Environment variables**, add:
   - `UMAMI_API_KEY` — your Umami Cloud API key (mark as sensitive)
   - `FOOTBALL_DATA_API_KEY` — your football-data.org API key (mark as sensitive)
4. Trigger a deploy — Netlify runs `node scripts/netlify-build.js`, which writes the two config files, then serves the project root

> **Updating links after deploy:** Run `npm run refresh` locally and push the updated `data/links.json`. Netlify will redeploy automatically if auto-deploy is enabled, or trigger a manual deploy.

> **Testing the build locally:** Run `npm run netlify` (with env vars set in your shell or `.env`) to verify the config files are generated correctly before pushing.

> **CORS note:** The football-data.org free tier allows CORS from any hosted domain. The `http://localhost` port-80 restriction only applies to local development — it works correctly on Netlify.

## Tech Stack

| Concern | Solution |
|---------|----------|
| Fuzzy search | [Fuse.js](https://fusejs.io/) v7 (CDN) |
| Icons | [Lucide](https://lucide.dev/) (CDN) |
| Weather | [Open-Meteo](https://open-meteo.com/) (free, no key) |
| Reverse geocoding | [Nominatim / OpenStreetMap](https://nominatim.org/) (free, no key) |
| Analytics trends | [Umami Cloud API](https://umami.is/docs/cloud/api-key) (API key required) |
| Markdown parsing | Node.js script (`scripts/refresh-links.js`) |
